{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNSMono-Light_YAXS144F07C_wght2580000;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 .AppleSystemUIFontMonospaced-Regular;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNSMono-Light_YAXS140B3BC_wght1F40000;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red13\green14\blue16;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red24\green26\blue30;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c5882\c6667\c7843;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
\cssrgb\c12157\c13725\c15686;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19540\viewh12920\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Types of Databases- Relational vs Non-Relational\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/Aditya-Bajpai-Consultadd/SQL-Practice#types-of-databases--relational-vs-non-relational"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0\fs32 \cf0 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs40 \cf0 Relational Databases\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/Aditya-Bajpai-Consultadd/SQL-Practice#relational-databases"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0\fs32 \cf0 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs27\fsmilli13600 \cf0 Relational Database store information in the form of tables. Multiple tables share information between them causing them to have a relationship.\
Hence, the name relational database.\
\
In a relational database, every table has a defined number of columns that define the information being stored and rows that stores the actual data.\
Each table must have a unique column to uniquely identify every single row of the table. That column is named the primary key. To establish \
relationship between multiple tables foreign key concept is used. SQL is used to interact with a relational database to perform CRUD operations.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 Advantages\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/Aditya-Bajpai-Consultadd/SQL-Practice#advantages"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0 \cf0 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs27\fsmilli13600 \cf0 1. ACID Compliance  \
2. Data Accuracy  \
3. Normalisation  \
4. Simplicity\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 Disadvantages\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/Aditya-Bajpai-Consultadd/SQL-Practice#disadvantages"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0 \cf0 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs27\fsmilli13600 \cf0 1. Scalability - These are intended to run on a single machine. Hence vertical scalability becomes an issue. 
\fs27\fsmilli13600  \
2. Flexibility - The Schema is predefined once and is rigid to any change.\
3. Performance - The performance of the database is linked tightly with the complexity of relation between tables.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs40 \cf0 Non-Relational Database\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/Aditya-Bajpai-Consultadd/SQL-Practice#non-relational-database"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0\fs32 \cf0 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs27\fsmilli13600 \cf0 A non-relational database, sometimes called NoSQL (Not Only SQL), is any kind of database that doesn\'92t use the tables, fields, and columns structured data concept from relational databases. Different database store data in different ways.\

\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs40 \cf0 When to use a relational database\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/Aditya-Bajpai-Consultadd/SQL-Practice#when-to-use-a-relational-database"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0\fs32 \cf0 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs27\fsmilli13600 \cf0 If you\'92re creating a project where the data is predictable, in terms of structure, size, and frequency of access, relational databases are the best choice.\uc0\u8232 Normalisation can help reduce the size of the data on disk by limiting duplicate data and anomalies, decreasing the risk of requiring vertical scaling in future.\

\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs40 \cf0 When to use a non relational database\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/Aditya-Bajpai-Consultadd/SQL-Practice#when-to-use-a-non-relational-database"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0\fs32 \cf0 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs27\fsmilli13600 \cf0 If the data being stored needs to be flexible in terms of shape or size, or if it needs to be open to change in future, then a non-relational database is more appropriate.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf3 \cb4 \strokec3 Differences between NoSQL and SQL
\fs60 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf3 Structure\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs27\fsmilli13600 \cf3 SQL databases are table based, while NoSQL databases can be document-oriented, key-value pairs, or graph structures. In a NoSQL database, a document can contain key value pairs, which can then be ordered and nested.\

\fs36 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf3 Scalability\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs27\fsmilli13600 \cf3 SQL databases scale vertically, usually on a single server, and require users to increase physical hardware to increase their storage capacities.\
NoSQL databases offer horizontal scalability, meaning that more servers simply need to be added to increase their data load. \

\fs36 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf3 Language\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs27\fsmilli13600 \cf3 SQL databases use SQL (Structured Query Language). NoSQL databases use JSON (JavaScript Object Notation), XML, YAML, or binary schema, facilitating unstructured data.
\fs36 \
 \

\fs48 Support\

\fs27\fsmilli13600 SQL is a popular standard language that is well supported by many different database systems, while NoSQL has varying levels of support in various database systems.\
Regarding support, generally more help is available for SQL databases than NoSQL. 
\fs36 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs27\fsmilli13600 \cf0 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs28 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags5 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt\clvertalbase \clshdrawnil \clwWidth5920\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf5 \strokec5 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb4 \cell \lastrow\row
}