{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .AppleSystemUIFontMonospaced-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNSMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red29\green38\blue43;\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c15294\c19608\c22353;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28300\viewh14460\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What  is ER Model ?
\fs24 \
The 
\f1 \strokec2 Entity-Relationship (ER) model
\f0 \strokec2  is a way to design and represent the data in a database. It helps to clearly define the structure of the data and how different parts are connected. An 
\f1 \strokec2 entity
\f0 \strokec2  is like an object or a thing you want to store data about.\
\

\fs48 What is Primary Key?
\fs24 \
A 
\f1 \strokec2 primary key
\f0 \strokec2  is a unique identifier for each record in a table. For example, if you have a table of students, each student might have a unique ID number that helps identify them. This primary key ensures there are no duplicates and makes it easy to find specific data.\
\

\fs48 What is Foreign Key?
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A 
\f1 \strokec2 foreign key
\f0 \strokec2  is used to connect two tables by linking one table's field to the primary key of another table. For instance, in an "Enrollments" table, the foreign key could be the Student ID, which links back to the main "Students" table, showing which student is enrolled in which course.\
\

\fs48 What is Normalisation?
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs27\fsmilli13600 \cf3 \cb4 \strokec3 Normalisation
\f0 \'a0is the process of minimising\'a0
\f1 redundancy
\f0 \'a0from a relation or set of relations. Redundancy in relation may cause insertion, deletion, and update anomalies. So, it helps to minimise the redundancy in relations.\'a0
\f1 Normal forms
\f0 \'a0are used to eliminate or reduce redundancy in database tables.
\fs36 \
\
First Normal Form (1NF)\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs27\fsmilli13600 \cf3 \'a0In 1NF, each table cell should contain only a single value, and each column should have a unique name. The first normal form helps to eliminate duplicate data and simplify queries.
\fs36 \
\
Second Normal Form (2NF)\

\fs27\fsmilli13600 2NF eliminates redundant data by requiring that each non-key attribute be dependent on the primary key. This means that each column should be directly related to the primary key, and not to other columns.\

\fs36 \
Third Normal Form (3NF)\

\fs27\fsmilli13600 3NF builds on 2NF by requiring that all non-key attributes are independent of each other. This means that each column should be directly related to the primary key, and not to any other columns in the same table.
\fs36 \
\
Boyce Codd Normal Form (BCNF)\

\fs27\fsmilli13600 BCNF is a stricter form of 3NF that ensures that each determinant in a table is a candidate key. In other words, BCNF ensures that each non-key attribute is dependent only on the candidate key.
\fs36 \
\

\fs48 Advantage of Normal Form 
\fs36 \

\fs27\fsmilli13600 Reduced data redundancy \
Improved data consistency\
Simplified Database Design\
Easier Database Maintenance 
\fs36 \
}